# IdP Email Configuration

## Requirement

tbd - setup will be needed

## How to configuring email for a realm

Keycloak can send emails to users for several different scenario

- to verify the user email address
- to recreate a password in case it was forgotten
- or when an administrator needs to receive notifications about a server event

To enable Keycloak to send emails, SMTP server settings need to get configured by following steps:

- **Login** to the respective Keycloak instance and open the relevant realm
- Click **Realm Settings** in the menu.
- Click the **Email** tab.
- Fill in the fields and toggle the switches as needed.

### Host

SMTP server hostname used for sending emails.

### Port

SMTP server port.

### From

Address used for the From SMTP-Header for the emails sent.

### From Display Name

Allows to configure a user friendly email address aliases (optional). If not set the plain From email address will be displayed in email clients.

### Reply To

Reply To denotes the address used for the Reply-To SMTP-Header for the mails sent (optional). If not set the plain From email address will be used.

### Reply To Display Name

Reply To Display Name allows to configure a user friendly email address aliases (optional). If not set the plain Reply To email address will be displayed.

### Envelope From

Envelope From denotes the Bounce Address used for the Return-Path SMTP-Header for the mails sent (optional).Enable SSL and Enable StartTSLToggle one of these switches to ON to support sending emails for recovering usernames and passwords, especially if the SMTP server is on an external network. You will most likely need to change the Port to 465, the default port for SSL/TLS.

### Enable Authentication

Set this to ON if your SMTP server requires authentication. When prompted, supply the Username and Password.

## Catena-X Implementation

    smtp-host: smtp.office365.com
    smtp-port: 587
    Enable StartTLS
    Enable Authentication
    visible in https://catenaxdev003akssrv.germanywestcentral.cloudapp.azure.com/iamcentralidp/auth/admin/master/console/#/realms/CX-Central/smtp-settings

it is mandatory that the 'from' email-address and the smtp-username,used to authenticate with the office365 mailing-service, are identical.

Therefor Notifications@catena-x.net is configured as email address.  
This can get changed (if necessary) if a new login/account with the respective email is created.


## NOTICE

This work is licensed under the [Apache-2.0](https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0).

- SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0
- SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2023 Contributors to the Eclipse Foundation
- Source URL: https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/portal-iam
